Javascript arrays (#474)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/arrays/arrays.md

---
Title: 'Arrays'

> Description: 'Arrays are lists of ordered, stored datathat can be of any data type.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Arrays are lists of ordered, stored data that can be of any data type.'
```

  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> Arrays are lists of ordered, stored data. They can hold items that are of any data type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arrays are lists of data that are stored as elements, ordered by index, and can be of any data type.
```

const mixedArray = [1, 'chicken', false];
```

> ## Creating an array

Reviewer 2: Hi, I just talked to Sonny about this the other day. In "doc" entries, subheadings are to be in title case, like this:
```suggestion
## Creating an Array
```

The most straightforward way to create an array is using an array literal.

```js
const fruit = ['Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana'];
```

Whitespace is ignored and declarations can span multiple lines.

Using the JavaScript Keyword `new` is another way to create an array.

```js
const fruit = new Array('Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana');
```

Though, because the effect is exactly the same, it is preferable to use the literal method for simplicity and execution speed.

> ## Accessing the elements of an array

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Accessing the Elements of an Array
```

## Creating an Array

The most straightforward way to create an array is using an array literal.

```js
const fruit = ['Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana'];
```

Whitespace is ignored and declarations can span multiple lines.

> Using the JavaScript Keyword `new` is another way to create an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arrays can also be created with the `Array` class by using the `new` keyword and passing in the elements as arguments:
```

```js
const fruit = new Array('Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana');
```

Though, because the effect is exactly the same, it is preferable to use the literal method for simplicity and execution speed.

## Accessing the Elements of an Array

> JavaScript array elements are arranged by index values, starting at 0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Array elements are ordered by index values, starting at 0:
```

By this point in entry, we would hope the reader is aware they are learning about _JavaScript_ arrays. A few other points with tis section:

- For the last list item, I suggest changing to "Index n has the nth element."
- I would consider changing the `pseudo` code snippet into a `js` code snippet that defines `array` and `console.log`s a valid `index.`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Another way to creating a new instance of the `Array` class and passing the elements as a comma-separated list of arguments:

```js
const classArray = new Array(0, 1, 2, 3);
```

```

Reviewer: Add a closing ```, too lol

> ## Creating an Array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to creating a new instance of the `Array` class and passing the elements as a comma-separated list of arguments:

```js
const classArray = new Array(0, 1, 2, 3);
```

## Creating an Array
```

array[index]
```

This code accesses the value of the first element in the `fruit` array:

```js
const fruit = ['Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana'];

console.log(fruit[0]);
// Output: Apple
```

Array elements can be changed by accessing the element and assigning a new value to it.

```js
const fruit = ['Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana'];

fruit[1] = 'Mango';

console.log(fruit[1]);
// Output: Mango
```

Accessing an array using an unused index will return `undefined`. However, a new value can still be assigned to an unused index of an array. When doing so, any gaps in the assigned indices will remain `undefined`.

```js
const fruit = ['Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana'];

fruit[4] = 'Mango'; // a valid assignment

console.log(fruit[3]);
// Output: undefined
```

> ## Nested arrays

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Nested Arrays
```

> Any object can be an element of an array. This includes other arrays. When an array has one or more arrays as elements, it is referred to as a "nested array". Accessing the elements of a nested array is similar to accessing the elements of a regular array. It just requires the additional index to reference the element in the inner array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any object can be an element of an array, including other arrays. Arrays with one or more arrays as elements are referred to as "nested arrays". Similar to accessing the elements of a regular array, accessing elements within nested arrays requires the additional indices for referencing inner array elements.
```

```js
// Create a nested array
const food = [
  ['Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana'],
  ['Strawberry', 'Blueberry', 'Raspberry'],
  ['Potato', 'Carrot', 'Broccoli'],
];

> // Retrieve the object at index 2 of the array at index 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Retrieve the food string at index 2 of the array at index 1
```

console.log(food[1][2]);
// Output: Raspberry

> // Retrieve the object at index 1 of the array at index 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Retrieve the food string at index 1 of the array at index 0
```

console.log(food[0][1]);
// Output: Orange
```

> The same process applies to arrays that themselves contain nested arrays. To access the elements in the "bottom" array requires an additional index for each level of nesting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same process applies to nested arrays that themselves contain nested arrays. The more "nested" the array, the more indices, or bracket pairs, are required for accessing their elements.
```

> ```js

Reviewer: Wondering if we could turn this one into a `codebyte/js` example since this is the last snippet of the entry?

// More levels of nesting

> const nested = [

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const nestedNumbers = [
```

console.log(fruit[3]);  
// Output: undefined
```

## Nested arrays

Any object can be an element of an array. This includes other arrays. When an array has one or more arrays as elements, it is referred to as a "nested array". Accessing the elements of a nested array is similar to accessing the elements of a regular array. It just requires the additional index to reference the element in the inner array.

```js
// Create a nested array
const food = [
  ['Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana'],
  ['Strawberry', 'Blueberry', 'Raspberry'],
  ['Potato', 'Carrot', 'Broccoli']
];

// Retrieve the object at index 2 of the array at index 1
console.log(food[1][2]); 
// Output: Raspberry

// Retrieve the object at index 1 of the array at index 0
console.log(food[0][1]);
// Output: Orange
```

The same process applies to arrays that themselves contain nested arrays. To access the elements in the "bottom" array requires an additional index for each level of nesting.

```js
// More levels of nesting
const nested = [
  [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]],
  [['A','B','C'],['D','E','F']]
 ]
 
 console.log(nested[1][0][2]);
 // Output: C
 
 console.log(nested[0][1][1]);
 // Output: 4
 ```

>  

Author: ```suggestion
 ```
